All right, so the next topic
that we're going to discuss
is about the return.
So if you remember, we briefly
touched on this topic, we had
a simple function just like this.
We have a function name
we have discussed about what goes
inside these parentheses.
We goes like this.
And, we usually go
ahead and say pass.
But you also have noticed, apart
from print statement, we
once wrote a return,
value here or return keyword here.
And when I say it's going
to return, let's just say hitesh.
That means it's returning
a value, it's not printing it.
What does it mean really?
And can we have a small
discussion on this for sure.
Now I want to focus majorly
on this keyword because
it's an important one.
Now imagine that you are a T seller
and you have a great masala chai.
What good is the effort if you don't
hand in the cup to your customer?
Exactly.
Similar.
This return keyword is this actually
goes ahead and simply says,
I will return you this value.
And this value here
can, be any value.
So if I go ahead and say this
value, this is exactly.
Can be any value.
Yeah, this is exactly
what it's saying.
I'll show you a more practical
example of it, in fact, multiple
examples of it, and then
you will truly realize,
all right, this is a really powerful
keyword in its altogether.
Let's go ahead and create a new file
and call this one as tenreturn py.
All right, so let's just say we
simply go ahead and make
a function which says make chai.
And there we go.
And, here it is.
The simplest example is return.
If I go ahead and use the keyword
return, and I simply say,
here is your masala chai.
This is really interesting.
Now further in my instruction,
it's not printing by default as
a function, but I want to print
whatever the value it returns.
So there are a couple
of ways how this can be done.
I can go ahead and say make chai.
Now, whatever the result comes
back, I'm immediately going
ahead and printing this out.
That's one way, very common way.
You're going to see this quite a lot.
So I just say Python 3, run this one.
This is totally okay, but this
is not really that easy
to understand that what happens.
So we'll cut this out and instead
of going with this, I will just go
ahead and use a value, return value.
Don't use return as a keyword
because it's, a reserved keyword.
Python uses it, so we can't use it
so now if I go ahead and use this,
I hope you can see whenever this
function executes and whatever it
returns, that gets stored into
this value and I can definitely
after this print this value as
return value, the result will be
exactly same.
But now this is much more easier
for me to understand.
So we need to study that.
What happens when I go
ahead and print this?
That could be a case.
That's a very interesting case.
Let's just say I'll
comment this out and I'll go
ahead and just say print.
And I want to print
something like this.
And I will say here is your masala.
Oh, I did a typo prep before that.
Masala chai.
What's in this case?
What would be the value
of return value?
And this is exactly, you
should be aware of this,
that this will be none.
So let's go ahead and have
a discussion on this one.
So whenever there are a couple of
cases that goes through like this.
So let's go ahead
and understand this.
So return can actually
return nothing.
When you go ahead and return nothing,
this is simply known
as that you are implicitly,
implicitly returns as none.
That's interesting.
Now you can also go ahead.
If you don't return anything,
the none will be returned to you.
So this is again a keyword.
But this is interesting.
You can also return one value value.
You can return multiple
value and you can also
early return from a function.
What do you mean by early?
From a function.
I'll show you example
for each one of them.
Don't you worry in that case.
So we'll take another such
examples for in this case we
have seen it once, but I want
to show you it again.
All right, so let's just say I
create a function and I say this
is my idle ideal idle chaiwala,
which also names as tea seller.
And I will go ahead
and just say pass.
I don't do anything in this one.
So if I go ahead and try to print
the value here and I say this
is my idle chaiwala, runs this.
Now you'll also notice again this
time first let's comment this one.
No printing.
And yeah, that's okay.
That's it.
Save this.
Run this again.
And now you see print.
Of course this also prints.
I don't want it to be here.
I'll just comment this
and this as well.
Too many comments.
But don't focus on that.
Just focus on this.
So we can see this ideally
gives me none as the value.
Just see it up here.
The none.
Yep.
This marks the point
that, hey, nothing.
When you give me nothing,
it will be implicitly
returning me a none object.
And I can do a lot
of things with that.
Now what happens if I want
to do something more?
All right, let's just say you define
another function which is sold cups.
And in the sold cups you go ahead
and return me one number only.
So that number could be
anything or could be a true
false, whatever the value is.
The interesting part now is
I can go ahead and store
this into any variable.
I can just run this function just
like this and whatever the result
comes back, I store that result.
I can go ahead and print this
total and I'm pretty sure you have
guessed the output by now.
What's going to be the output
for this one?
So there we go, run it again.
We see that the none is above
output, but we have this 120.
Pretty nice.
Interesting, isn't it?
All right, so what about
returning early?
Because I know multiple value
will see that for sure.
But right now let's just see.
We have seen the one value.
Now I want to see the early
from a function.
We'll surely handle
the multiple value.
Don't you worry on that.
Let's just say you define another
one which says chai status.
And what I say is this takes
parameter as cups left left.
And we have a condition here that
if somehow the value cups left is
equals to zero, and in that case
I simply want to return, surely I
can use break, but I just want to
return that says sorry chai over
or chai I can use other words as
well in my native language, but
I'll go and in the other cases
I'll go ahead and say chai is
ready.
All right, so how can we use this?
How can we actually
short circuit this one?
So if I go ahead and print this out
as my chai status and I go ahead
and pass on a value of 0 VS I pass
on a value of 5 in the first line,
we are actually short circuiting
it.
That means once the return value is
there and once a function hits
return, no other code is executed.
I repeat this once a function
hits the return keyword.
After that, no matter what happens,
other code will not execute.
All right, let's see that in action.
So in the first line you're going
to see that the sorry chi over.
If this is getting printed in
the first iteration of the function,
this chai isready never prints out.
But in the other case, when you
pass on the 5 value, you never
are Short circuiting it and you
always get the chise ready.
What you'll also notice if I go ahead
and say that I want to print
something here within this function.
Notice here what happens if I
go ahead and print say chai.
Notice here it's always grayed out.
I hope you can see that.
Very difficult.
But still you can see this.
This is grayed out.
If I try to run this, the code,
no matter what happens, will
never reach to line number 24.
Because once you return,
that means that is it.
And that's what it says
early from a function.
Returns early from a function.
All right, hope this is now clear.
Now one more thing.
How about we talk about
returning multiple values.
This is what you will
see quite a lot.
A lot of other languages are also
adopting this behavior.
But this is actually very fun.
I can go ahead and say that I will
go ahead and work on with chireport.
I'm collecting a report for chai
and then I return
somehow I return two values.
120.
Now by the way, you can return true,
false or arrays.
You can return anything
which you wish.
What I am returning for just my
reference, I'm saying how many
sold and how many remaining.
All right, good enough.
Now with this, any function, as
soon as you execute this
method, which is chireport,
this will return you two values.
So what you can expect,
you can declare two values, sold
and remaining.
And automatically when this
function execute, it will
give you the two values.
Surely you can return
third value as well.
But since you are not handling this,
this will go probably in the air.
Nobody is going with that.
Let's go ahead and print
out the values.
So I'll just go ahead and say this
one is sold and I want to have
the sold variable another one.
We are going to go ahead
and say remaining.
For this one I will say remaining.
Hope I wrote that correct.
So we get this one.
Let's see what's the output of this?
You might have guessed the sold
is 100 and all of that.
But what happens in the case
when actually function returns 10
for something?
Some people haven't paid for that.
So in that case the function will
simply say that hey, we are
returning unpacking three values.
Why are you not handling
the three values?
And there are a couple
of ways how this is handled
or this can be handled.
Oh, in case you are an experienced
programmer, you might be guessing,
hey, what if I just go ahead
and put up an underscore here.
I'll show you directly
practical what happens.
The code actually runs.
And you will see this quite a lot.
Underscore means, hey, I know
the three values are coming in, I'm
handling them, but I'll probably
never ever use this value here.
So it's, a common practice.
You might use underscore here.
That's a hack.
But most of the time you want
to have this, so, I'll just
go ahead and say, not paid.
And it's up to me that I don't want
to use this value or this variable.
It's okay.
You can actually run both
of the cases, so this is really fun.
So I hope this gives you the idea
of how it works and how
the function return can be a really,
really interesting topic.
So that is it for this video.
Let's catch up quickly
in the next one.